docs/Using Randomness/v2-wrapper/get-a-random-number.md, before:

---
layout: nodes.liquid
section: ethereum
date: Last Modified
title: 'Get a Random Number'
permalink: 'docs/vrf/v2/wrapper/get-a-random-number/'
whatsnext:
  {
    'Security Considerations': '/docs/vrf/v2/security/',
    'Best Practices': '/docs/vrf/v2/best-practices/',
    'Migrating from VRF v1 to v2': '/docs/vrf/v2/wrapper/migration-v1-v2/',
    'Configuration': '/docs/vrf/v2/wrapper/configuration/',
  }
metadata:
  description: 'How to generate a random number inside a smart contract using Chainlink VRF.'
---

> ℹ️ You are viewing the VRF v2 guide.
>
> If you are using v1, see the [VRF v1 guide](/docs/chainlink-vrf/v1/).

This guide explains how to get random values using a simple contract to request and receive random values from Chainlink VRF v2 without managing a subscription. To explore more applications of VRF, refer to our [blog](https://blog.chain.link/).

**Table of contents**

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Create and deploy a VRF v2 compatible contract](#create-and-deploy-a-vrf-v2-compatible-contract)
- [Fund your contract](#fund-your-contract)
- [Request random values](#request-random-values)
- [Analyzing the contract](#analyzing-the-contract)
- [Clean up](#clean-up)

## Requirements

This guide assumes that you know how to create and deploy smart contracts on Ethereum testnets using the following tools:

- [The Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/)
- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/)
- [Rinkeby testnet ETH](/docs/link-token-contracts/#rinkeby)

If you are new to developing smart contracts on Ethereum, see the [Getting Started](/docs/conceptual-overview/) guide to learn the basics.

## Create and deploy a VRF v2 compatible contract

For this example, use the [VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol](https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol) sample contract. This contract imports the following dependencies:

- `VRFV2WrapperConsumerBase.sol`[(link)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/contracts/src/v0.8/dev/VRFV2WrapperConsumerBase.sol)
- `ConfirmedOwner.sol`[(link)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/contracts/src/v0.8/ConfirmedOwner.sol)

The contract also includes pre-configured values for the necessary request parameters such as `callbackGasLimit`, `requestConfirmations` and number of random words `numWords`. The VRF Wrapper address is directly passed in the constructor. You can change these parameters if you want to experiment on different testnets.

Build and deploy the contract on Rinkeby.

1. Open the `VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol`[(link)](https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol) contract in Remix.

<div class="remix-callout">
      <a href="https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol" target="_blank" >Open in Remix</a>
      <a href="/docs/conceptual-overview/#what-is-remix">What is Remix?</a>
</div>

1. On the **Compile** tab in Remix, compile the `VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol` contract.

1. Configure your deployment. On the **Deploy** tab in Remix, select the **Injected Web3 Environment**, select the `VRFv2WrapperConsumer` contract from the contract list.

1. Click the **Deploy** button to deploy your contract on-chain. MetaMask opens and asks you to confirm the transaction.

1. After you deploy your contract, copy the address from the **Deployed Contracts** list in Remix. Before you can request randomness from VRF v2, you must fund your consumer contract with enough LINK tokens in order to request for randomness. Next, [fund your contract](#fund-your-contract).

## Fund Your Contract

Requesting for randomness will fail unless your consumer contract has enough LINK. Learn how to [Acquire testnet LINK](/docs/acquire-link/) and [Fund your contract](/docs/fund-your-contract/). For this example, funding with 2 LINK should be sufficient.

## Request random values

The deployed contract requests random values from Chainlink VRF, receives those values, builds a struct `RequestStatus` containing them and stores the struct in a mapping `s_requests`. Run the `requestRandomWords()` function on your contract to start the request.

1. Return to Remix and view your deployed contract functions in the **Deployed Contracts** list.

1. Click the `requestRandomWords()` function to send the request for random values to Chainlink VRF. MetaMask opens and asks you to confirm the transaction. After you approve the transaction, Chainlink VRF processes your request. Chainlink VRF fulfills the request and returns the random values to your contract in a callback to the `fulfillRandomWords()` function. At this point, a new key `requestId` is added to the mapping `s_requests`.

   Depending on current testnet conditions, it might take a few minutes for the callback to return the requested random values to your contract.

1. After the oracle returns the random values to your contract, the mapping `s_requests` is updated: The received random values are stored in `s_requests[_requestId].randomWords`.

1. Call `getRequestStatus()` specifying the `requestId` to display the random words.

> 📘 Note on Requesting Randomness
> Do not re-request randomness even if you do **not** receive an answer right away. Doing so would give the VRF service provider the option to withhold a VRF fulfillment, if it doesn't like the outcome, and wait for the re-request in the hopes that it gets a better outcome. This is similar to the considerations with block confirmation time. For more information, see the [VRF Security Considerations](/docs/vrf/v2/security/) page.

## Analyzing the contract

In this example, the consumer contract uses static configuration parameters.

```solidity
{% include 'samples/VRF/VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol' %}
```

<div class="remix-callout">
      <a href="https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2WrapperConsumer.sol" target="_blank" >Open in Remix</a>
      <a href="/docs/conceptual-overview/#what-is-remix">What is Remix?</a>
</div>

The parameters define how your requests will be processed. You can find the values for your network in the [Configuration](/docs/vrf/v2/wrapper/configuration/) page.

- `uint32 callbackGasLimit`: The limit for how much gas to use for the callback request to your contract's `fulfillRandomWords()` function. It must be less than the `maxGasLimit` limit on the coordinator contract minus the `wrapperGasOverhead` (see [Wrapper limits](/docs/vrf/v2/wrapper/#limits) for more details). Adjust this value for larger requests depending on how your `fulfillRandomWords()` function processes and stores the received random values. If your `callbackGasLimit` is not sufficient, the callback will fail while your consumer contract is still charged for the work done to generate your requested random values.

- `uint16 requestConfirmations`: How many confirmations the Chainlink node should wait before responding. The longer the node waits, the more secure the random value is. It must be greater than the `minimumRequestBlockConfirmations` limit on the coordinator contract.

- `uint32 numWords`: How many random values to request. If you can use several random values in a single callback, you can reduce the amount of gas that you spend per random value. The total cost of the callback request depends on how your `fulfillRandomWords()` function processes and stores the received random values, so adjust your `callbackGasLimit` accordingly.

The contract includes the following functions:

- `requestRandomWords()`: Takes your specified parameters and submits the request to the VRF wrapper contract.

- `fulfillRandomWords()`: Receives random values and stores them with your contract.

- `getRequestStatus()`: Retrive request details for a given `_requestId`.

- `withdrawLink()`: At any time, the owner of the contract can withdraw outstanding LINK balance from it.

> 🚧 Security Considerations
>
> Be sure to review your contracts to make sure they follow the best practices on the [security considerations](/docs/vrf/v2/security/) page.

## Clean up

After you are done with this contract, you can retrieve the remaining testnet LINK to use with other examples.

1. Call `withdrawLink()` function. MetaMask opens and asks you to confirm the transaction. After you approve the transaction, the remaining LINK will be transfered from your consumer contract to your wallet address.

Commit message:

Rename Wrapper method to Ad-hoc method

docs/Using Randomness/v2-wrapper/get-a-random-number.md, after:

---
layout: nodes.liquid
section: ethereum
date: Last Modified
title: 'Get a Random Number'
permalink: 'docs/vrf/v2/ad-hoc/get-a-random-number/'
whatsnext:
  {
    'Security Considerations': '/docs/vrf/v2/security/',
    'Best Practices': '/docs/vrf/v2/best-practices/',
    'Migrating from VRF v1 to v2': '/docs/vrf/v2/ad-hoc/migration-v1-v2/',
    'Configuration': '/docs/vrf/v2/ad-hoc/configuration/',
  }
metadata:
  description: 'How to generate a random number inside a smart contract using Chainlink VRF v2 - ad-hoc method.'
---

> ℹ️ You are viewing the VRF v2 guide.
>
> If you are using v1, see the [VRF v1 guide](/docs/chainlink-vrf/v1/).

This guide explains how to get random values using a simple contract to request and receive random values from Chainlink VRF v2 without managing a subscription. To explore more applications of VRF, refer to our [blog](https://blog.chain.link/).

**Table of contents**

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Create and deploy a VRF v2 compatible contract](#create-and-deploy-a-vrf-v2-compatible-contract)
- [Fund your contract](#fund-your-contract)
- [Request random values](#request-random-values)
- [Analyzing the contract](#analyzing-the-contract)
- [Clean up](#clean-up)

## Requirements

This guide assumes that you know how to create and deploy smart contracts on Ethereum testnets using the following tools:

- [The Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/)
- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/)
- [Rinkeby testnet ETH](/docs/link-token-contracts/#rinkeby)

If you are new to developing smart contracts on Ethereum, see the [Getting Started](/docs/conceptual-overview/) guide to learn the basics.

## Create and deploy a VRF v2 compatible contract

For this example, use the [VRFv2AdHocConsumer.sol](https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2AdHocConsumer.sol) sample contract. This contract imports the following dependencies:

- `VRFV2WrapperConsumerBase.sol`[(link)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/contracts/src/v0.8/VRFV2WrapperConsumerBase.sol)
- `ConfirmedOwner.sol`[(link)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/contracts/src/v0.8/ConfirmedOwner.sol)

The contract also includes pre-configured values for the necessary request parameters such as `callbackGasLimit`, `requestConfirmations` and number of random words `numWords`, VRF v2 Wrapper address `wrapperAddress` and link token address `linkAddress`. You can change these parameters if you want to experiment on different testnets.

Build and deploy the contract on Rinkeby.

1. Open the `VRFv2AdHocConsumer.sol`[(link)](https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2AdHocConsumer.sol) contract in Remix.

<div class="remix-callout">
      <a href="https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2AdHocConsumer.sol" target="_blank" >Open in Remix</a>
      <a href="/docs/conceptual-overview/#what-is-remix">What is Remix?</a>
</div>

1. On the **Compile** tab in Remix, compile the `VRFv2AdHocConsumer` contract.

1. Configure your deployment. On the **Deploy** tab in Remix, select the **Injected Web3 Environment**, select the `VRFv2AdHocConsumer` contract from the contract list.

1. Click the **Deploy** button to deploy your contract on-chain. MetaMask opens and asks you to confirm the transaction.

1. After you deploy your contract, copy the address from the **Deployed Contracts** list in Remix. Before you can request randomness from VRF v2, you must fund your consumer contract with enough LINK tokens in order to request for randomness. Next, [fund your contract](#fund-your-contract).

## Fund Your Contract

Requesting for randomness will fail unless your consumer contract has enough LINK. Learn how to [Acquire testnet LINK](/docs/acquire-link/) and [Fund your contract](/docs/fund-your-contract/). For this example, funding with 2 LINK should be sufficient.

## Request random values

The deployed contract requests random values from Chainlink VRF, receives those values, builds a struct `RequestStatus` containing them and stores the struct in a mapping `s_requests`. Run the `requestRandomWords()` function on your contract to start the request.

1. Return to Remix and view your deployed contract functions in the **Deployed Contracts** list.

1. Click the `requestRandomWords()` function to send the request for random values to Chainlink VRF. MetaMask opens and asks you to confirm the transaction. After you approve the transaction, Chainlink VRF processes your request. Chainlink VRF fulfills the request and returns the random values to your contract in a callback to the `fulfillRandomWords()` function. At this point, a new key `requestId` is added to the mapping `s_requests`.

   Depending on current testnet conditions, it might take a few minutes for the callback to return the requested random values to your contract.

1. After the oracle returns the random values to your contract, the mapping `s_requests` is updated: The received random values are stored in `s_requests[_requestId].randomWords`.

1. Call `getRequestStatus()` specifying the `requestId` to display the random words.

> 📘 Note on Requesting Randomness
> Do not re-request randomness even if you do **not** receive an answer right away. Doing so would give the VRF service provider the option to withhold a VRF fulfillment, if it doesn't like the outcome, and wait for the re-request in the hopes that it gets a better outcome. This is similar to the considerations with block confirmation time. For more information, see the [VRF Security Considerations](/docs/vrf/v2/security/) page.

## Analyzing the contract

In this example, the consumer contract uses static configuration parameters.

```solidity
{% include 'samples/VRF/VRFv2AdHocConsumer.sol' %}
```

<div class="remix-callout">
      <a href="https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/VRF/VRFv2AdHocConsumer.sol" target="_blank" >Open in Remix</a>
      <a href="/docs/conceptual-overview/#what-is-remix">What is Remix?</a>
</div>

The parameters define how your requests will be processed. You can find the values for your network in the [Configuration](/docs/vrf/v2/ad-hoc/configuration/) page.

- `uint32 callbackGasLimit`: The limit for how much gas to use for the callback request to your contract's `fulfillRandomWords()` function. It must be less than the `maxGasLimit` limit on the coordinator contract minus the `wrapperGasOverhead` (see [VRF v2 Ad-hoc limits](/docs/vrf/v2/ad-hoc/#limits) for more details). Adjust this value for larger requests depending on how your `fulfillRandomWords()` function processes and stores the received random values. If your `callbackGasLimit` is not sufficient, the callback will fail while your consumer contract is still charged for the work done to generate your requested random values.

- `uint16 requestConfirmations`: How many confirmations the Chainlink node should wait before responding. The longer the node waits, the more secure the random value is. It must be greater than the `minimumRequestBlockConfirmations` limit on the coordinator contract.

- `uint32 numWords`: How many random values to request. If you can use several random values in a single callback, you can reduce the amount of gas that you spend per random value. The total cost of the callback request depends on how your `fulfillRandomWords()` function processes and stores the received random values, so adjust your `callbackGasLimit` accordingly.

The contract includes the following functions:

- `requestRandomWords()`: Takes your specified parameters and submits the request to the VRF v2 Wrapper contract.

- `fulfillRandomWords()`: Receives random values and stores them with your contract.

- `getRequestStatus()`: Retrive request details for a given `_requestId`.

- `withdrawLink()`: At any time, the owner of the contract can withdraw outstanding LINK balance from it.

> 🚧 Security Considerations
>
> Be sure to review your contracts to make sure they follow the best practices on the [security considerations](/docs/vrf/v2/security/) page.

## Clean up

After you are done with this contract, you can retrieve the remaining testnet LINK to use with other examples.

1. Call `withdrawLink()` function. MetaMask opens and asks you to confirm the transaction. After you approve the transaction, the remaining LINK will be transfered from your consumer contract to your wallet address.
